---
layout: default
title: Google搜索引擎优化指南
author: lijiaocn
createdate: 2017/04/23 18:04:53
last_modified_at: 2017/05/16 08:53:38
categories: 技巧
tags: seo
keywords:
description: 

---

## SEO Basics

### Create unique, accurate page titles

should create a unique title for each page on your site.

	<head>
	<title>a unique title</title>
	</head>

use brief, but descriptive titles, if the title is too long, Google will show only a portion of it.

### Make use of the "description" meta tag

a page's description meta tag gives Google and other search engines a summary of what the page is about.

use unique descriptions for each page


## Improving Site Structure

### Improve the structure of your URLs

visitors may be intimidated by extremely long and cryptic URLs that contain few recognizable words.

if your url contains relevant words, this provides users and search engines with more informations about the page than an ID or oddly names parameters would

URLs are displayed in search results.

Use word in URLs.

Create a simple directory structure.

Provide on version of a URL to reach a document.

[creating-google-friendly-urls][2]:

	1. 尽可能采用易读的字词而非冗长的ID编号
	2. 正在网址中使用连字符(-)分割单词
	3. 截掉不必要的参数，尽量缩短网址
	4. 包含多个参数的网址，可能会产生大量不必要的网址,使用robots.txt组织动态网址的抓取
	5. nofollow可以禁止抓取：
	<meta name="robots" content="nofollow" />
	<a href="signin.php" rel="nofollow">sign in</a>

### Make you site easier to navigate

Navigation is very important for search engines.

Ensure more convenience for users by using 'breadcrumb lists'(使用面包屑导航！)

Allow for the possibility of apart of the URL being removed

Prepare two sitemaps: one for users ,one for search engines.


## Optimizing Content

### Offer quality content and services

Creating compelling and useful content will likely influence your website more than any of the other factors discussed here

Anticipating there differences in search behavior and accounting for them while writing your content(using a good mix of keywords phrases) could produce positives results.

### Write better anchor text

the beeter your anchcor text is, the easier it is for users to navigate and for Google to understand what the page you're linking to is about.



### Optimize your use of images

### Use heading tags appropriately

## Dealing with Crawlers

### Make effective use of robots.txt

### Be aware of rel="nofollow" for links

## SEO for Mobile Phones

out(Google) crawler for mobile sites is "Googleblog-Mobile".

Google may change its User-agent information at any time without notice, check whether the User-agent header contains the string "Googlebot-Mobile"

Check that your mobile-friendly URLs' DTD(Doc Type Definition) declaration is in appropriate mobile format such as XHTML Mobile or Compact HTML.

### Notify Google for mobile sites

When a mobile user or crawler access the desktop version of a URL, you can redirect them to the corresponding mobile version of the same page.

if you redirect users, please make sure that the content on the corresponding mobile/destop URL matches as closely as possible

Google doesn't automatically redirect destop user from their mobile site to their desktop.

Google的PC端和移动端是两个爬虫。


### Guide mobile users accurately

## Promotions and Analysis

### Promote your website in the right ways

### Make use of free webmaster tools

## 参考

1. [goolle-search-engine-optimization-starter-guide][1]
2. [creating-Google-friendly-URLS][2]
3. [百度手机站优化指南](3)
4. [百度搜索引擎优化指南2.0官方版][4]


[1]: goolle-search-engine-optimization-starter-guide "http://static.googleusercontent.com/media/www.google.com/zh-CN//webmasters/docs/search-engine-optimization-starter-guide.pdf"
[2]: creating-Google-friendly-URLS" "https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/76329"
[3]: 百度手机站优化指南 "http://zhanzhang.baidu.com/wiki/41"
[4]: 百度搜索引擎优化指南2.0官方版 "https://wenku.baidu.com/view/f576c31d650e52ea5518983f.html"
